src/pages/styling.mdx, before:

export const description = 'The best ways to style your React application.'

# Styling & UI Libraries

<Note>
  Helpful tip: before using any libraries below, you should check your IDE for
  plugins that might improve the developer experience of using it. For example,
  if you use Tailwind, the [Tailwind
  IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)
  plugin (which recommends classnames in the auto-complete dropdown) and the
  [Headwind](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=heybourn.headwind)
  plugin (enforces consistent ordering of classnames in my markup) in Visual
  Studio Code might be useful for your team.
</Note>

## Styling Solutions

- Utility Class Libraries
  - [tailwindcss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
  - [unocss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/unocss)
- Write Your CSS
  - [stitches](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stitches/react)
  - [styled-components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/styled-components)
  - [vanilla-extract](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vanilla-extract/css)
  - [emotion](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emotion/css)
  - [CSS modules](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-modules)
  - [linaria](https://www.npmjs.com/package/linaria)

## Component Libraries

Most UI libraries will come with a "theme" or global way to configure certain things like colors, fonts, etc. — but in general, the components render with opinionated styles already applied.

If your app is small enough, it may be simpler to reach for a headless solution (more below) and create the critical components in your app than try to overwrite or customize an entire library.

- [MUI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/material)
- [Twitter Bootstrap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-bootstrap)
- [Chakra UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@chakra-ui/react)
- [AntDesign](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antd)
- [Blueprint](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@blueprintjs/core/)
- [FluentUI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fluentui/react-components)
- [Mantine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mantine/core)
- [pico](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@picocss/pico)

<Note>
  If you need a lot of customization or control over the presentation of the UI,
  you should consider a headless solution.
</Note>

## Headless Component Libraries

- [radix-ui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@radix-ui/primitive)
- [headless-ui](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@headlessui/react)
- [react-aria](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-aria/)
- [ariakit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ariakit)

## Recommended Combinations

- [Radix UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@radix-ui/primitive) + [tailwind](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
- [Headless UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@headlessui/react) + [tailwind](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
- [Radix UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@radix-ui/primitive) + [stitches](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@stitches/react)
- [Chakra UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@chakra-ui/react) + [emotion](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emotion/css)

### Misc

- [Demystifying Styled Components - Josh Comeau](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/demystifying-styled-components/)
- [shadcdn](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/accordion) - radix + tailwind components to drop in your project ([no npm package available](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs))

Commit message:

Add Styling Page Changes (#89)
* Fix reference to Material UIl (#88)

* Quick update to styling page - adding Base UI

* Put the list in order of popularity according to npm weekly downloads

* Remaining updates for styling page.

* Small updats

---------

Co-authored-by: Olivier Tassinari <olivier.tassinari@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Eric Diviney <ericdiviney@Erics-Mac-mini.attlocal.net>

src/pages/styling.mdx, after:

export const description = 'The best ways to style your React application.'

# Styling & UI Libraries

<Note>
  Helpful tip: before using any libraries below, you should check your IDE for
  plugins that might improve the developer experience of using it. For example,
  if you use Tailwind, the [Tailwind
  IntelliSense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bradlc.vscode-tailwindcss)
  plugin (which recommends classnames in the auto-complete dropdown) and the
  [Headwind](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=heybourn.headwind)
  plugin (enforces consistent ordering of classnames in my markup) in Visual
  Studio Code might be useful for your team.
</Note>

## Styling Solutions

- Utility Class Libraries
  - [tailwindcss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
  - [unocss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/unocss)
- Write your CSS
  - [styled-components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/styled-components)
  - [vanilla-extract](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vanilla-extract/css)
  - [emotion](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emotion/css)
  - [CSS modules](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#css-modules) (this is more of a concept, than a library)

## Component Libraries

Most UI libraries will come with a "theme" or global way to configure certain things like colors, fonts, etc. — but in general, the components render with opinionated styles already applied.

If your app is small enough, it may be simpler to reach for a headless solution (more below) and create the critical components in your app than try to overwrite or customize an entire library.

- [Material UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/material)
- [React Bootstrap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-bootstrap) ([based on Twitter Bootstrap](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bootstrap))
- [Chakra UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@chakra-ui/react)
- [Ant Design](https://www.npmjs.com/package/antd)
- [Mantine](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mantine/core)
- [Fluent UI by Microsoft](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@fluentui/react-components)
- [Carbon by IBM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@carbon/react)
- [Pico CSS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@picocss/pico)

<Note>
  If you need a lot of customization or control over the presentation of the UI,
  you should consider a headless solution.
</Note>

## Headless Component Libraries

- [Radix UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@radix-ui/primitive)
- [Headless UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@headlessui/react)
- [Base UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/base)
- [React Aria](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-aria)
- [Ariakit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ariakit/react)

## Recommended Combinations

- [Radix UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@radix-ui/primitive) + [tailwind](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
- [Headless UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@headlessui/react) + [tailwind](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tailwindcss)
- [Chakra UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@chakra-ui/react) + [emotion](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@emotion/css)
- [Base UI](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mui/base) + [CSS Modules](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#css-modules) / [styled-components](https://www.npmjs.com/package/styled-components)

### Misc

- [Demystifying Styled Components - Josh Comeau](https://www.joshwcomeau.com/react/demystifying-styled-components/)
- [shadcn](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/accordion) - radix + tailwind components to drop in your project ([no npm package available](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs))
